Lab setup (#231)
GoInterject/GoInterject.github.io: wLabs/LabSetup.md

---
title: Setting up the Lab Environment
layout: custom
keywords: [lab, guide, setup, start, FinCube, data cells]
description: This page details the necessary requirements and steps to set up a local environment that can accommodate a user following the Lab Guide.
---
* * *

## Overview

> The [Lab Guide](/wLabs/lab.html) provides a convenient way for users to become familiar with Interject. The Guide walks through several individual walkthroughs on how to modify and create reports, drilling to data, and exporting reports. In order for a user to follow along, it is necessary to first set up a local environment that can accommodate this Lab Guide. This page details the necessary requirements and steps to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Lab Guide](/wLabs/lab.html) provides a convenient way for users to become familiar with Interject. The Guide has several walkthroughs on how to modify and create reports, drill to data, and export reports. In order for a user to follow along, it is necessary to first set up a local environment that can accommodate this Lab Guide. This page details the necessary requirements and steps to do this.
```

- walkthrough was mentioned twice... could be more succinct
- rephrase modify\create\drilling\exporting to the same verb style

### Interject Data Report Flow

The reports in the Lab Guide contain [Interject report formulas](/wIndex/Excel-Function-Index.html), each referencing a [Data Portal](/wPortal/Data-Portals.html) setup on the [Interject Portal Website](/wPortal/The-INTERJECT-Website-Portal.html). These Data Portals in turn reference a Data Connection and a Stored Procedure that point to a data source where the data will be pulled from. When the data source is a database, the entire flow can be conceptualized by the following diagram:

> ![](/images/LabSetup/FlowChart.png)

Reviewer: This diagram is mostly right, but it does look abit like Interject talks to the client's database through the Interject platform. This isnt the case and often times in client\sales meetings ive noticed the question comes up about whether interject reaches into the database or not. Its a worthy point to provide clarification on for new users.

![image](https://github.com/GoInterject/GoInterject.github.io/assets/10929547/7b90ea0c-3951-4590-92bd-a7d41dbac1fe)

<br>

### Subscription Setup

> In order to have the necessary requirements to go through the Lab Guide, a user just needs to be subscribed to the "Publisher - Interject App". Once subscribed, a user can select this company from the Interject ribbon:

Reviewer: Currently users cannot self-subscribe to an Interject Published App. We might want to consider providing a page or contact info on how to become subscribed to the Published App: "Publisher - Interject App".

Reviewer: i didnt realize requesting a subscription is mentioned below. I would suggest moving the "how to get subscribed" details closer to the top here when published apps are first mentioned.

Author: Yes good point, I will move the request info to the top.

### Step 2: Setting up the Data Connection

Navigate to the [Interject Portal site](https://portal.gointerject.com/) and log in. For a guide about how to use the Interject Portal site, see [here](/wPortal/The-INTERJECT-Website-Portal.html).

Set up a Data Connection that points to the database you set up. The following example uses a database called "Interject_Lab_DB":

* **Name:** Local_Lab_DataSource
* **Description:** This is the Data Connection to a local database set up for the Lab Guide
* **Connection Type:** Database
* **Connection String:** Data Source=(local);Initial Catalog=Interject_Lab_DB;Integrated Security=SSPI;

![](/images/LabSetup/DataConnection.png)
<br>

For detailed instructions on how to set up a Data Connection, see [Portal: Database Connection](/wPortal/L-Database-Connection.html).

### Step 3: Setting up the Data Portals

> Now that you have a database and set up a Data Connection to it, you need to start adding Data Portals. For instructions on how to set up Data Portals, see [Data Portals](/wPortal/Data-Portals.html). Following is a list of the Data Portals and their Stored Procedures used in the Labs.

Reviewer: im confused here. the instructions say we need to add data portals but we only show the SP name and params? shouldnt we have a script that sets up all data portals like we provided above to recreate the northwind database? that seems like the easiest way for users to get setup with SPs for portals

>**Note:** The Data Type and Direction are automatically set when selecting a System Parameter.

> <button class="collapsible-parameter">**NorthwindCreditSave**<br>Stored Procedure: [demo].[Northwind_Credit_Save]</button>

Reviewer: the button and "collapsible-parameter" class might be the way to do expandable sections for the website but i wanted to point out the `<details>` and `<summary>` tags that are natively supported by markdown as an option too... 

Reference: https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab

<td>varchar</td>
<td>input</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Category</td>
<td>Formula Parameter</td>
<td>varchar</td>
<td>input</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Interject_NTLogin</td>
<td>System Parameter</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Interject_ReturnError</td>
<td>System Parameter</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Step 4: Setting up FinCube

[FinCube](/wIndex/FinCube---The-Financial-Cube.html) is a special Data Portal that is used for financial reporting. This Portal is called "Demo_Interject_FinCube" in the Lab files and is used in 6 labs:

* Lab 1.3 Financial Report
* Lab 2.4 Financial Report
* Lab 4.3 Financial Report
* Lab 5.5 Using the Retain Feature
* Lab 7.2 Basic Distribution
* Lab 7.3 Advanced Distribution

Due to the complexities of this Data Portal, it is advised to use the API connection for this Data Portal. The following steps through how to set up this Portal.

#### Setting up the FinCube Data Connection

The FinCube Portal can use an API connection. You can use the following settings to set up the Data Connection:

* **Name:** \<Your own custom Name>
* **Description:** \<Your own custom Description>
* **Connection Type:** Web Api

> * **Api Root Url:** https://data-api.gointerject.com/api

Reviewer: does this mean we are letting anyone run read\write requests on this data api? Seems abit open for an api that could be accessed by anyone who follows this walkthrough. maybe
